---
layout: post
title: "Species Rework: Round 2"
description: "Ready for playtesting and feedback"
date: 2021-12-14
image: https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/e/e0/Codex_MEA_-_Krogan_Biology_%2B_main.png
---

## Upcoming Changes and Feedback, Round 2

As per the last post, we're working on reviewing the species. We've finished are initial review of the rest of the
species and are ready for community feedback. Highlights to this round of updates includes:

1. New Species: Kett, Unshackled AI, and Yahg
2. Over 30 species-specific feats!

### [Species Update (Round 2)](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1NgQFcImx8ubtsSXb8zyliWBWm1rokc3W?usp=sharing)

<br>

### Feedback

If you'd like to leave feedback, you've got a few options:

1. Use the Round 2 [feedback form](https://forms.gle/ezJzzo424x8tMfQV6)
2. Alternatively, if you want to have discussions with other community members, you can use the __#closed-play-testing__
channel on [Discord](https://discord.gg/c2UnqkH)

<br>

_While you can certainly leave feedback on the #closed-play-testing channel, we recommend this channel be
reserved for discussions rather than specific recommendations or criticisms, simply because its difficult to gather feedback
by scrolling through messages._

## Next Steps & What's not happening

1. As we gather feedback, I'll begin coding the changes for the website and character builder. The goal is to have
all feats and species traits fully functioning in the character builder.
2. We want to release this content as quickly as possible, so I am not going to work on a PDF update for the next release.
Instead, as soon as the species rework is live, I'll focus on updating the printable PDF.
3. We decided to forego Paragon and Renegade feats because the new P/R system might need tweaking after its been live.

## Bug Fixes

- Added the heavy weapon charges back to the display (incorrectly lost in the 1.3.1 update)
- Fixed a typo in the Adept powercasting "Powers Known" section. The example previous had the wrong level mentioned.
- Added a missing DC to the Reaper Harvester's cannon attack.



