---
layout: post
title: "Just in time for the Legendary Edition"
description: "It's been a long time...how has everyone been?"
date: 2021-03-07
image: https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/6/62/Default_Female_Shepard.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/900?cb=20120608135031
---
So...it's been a while. This past summer I had some ["grand" ideas](https://www.reddit.com/r/masseffect5e/comments/hk2u71/next_steps_for_me5e/)
about where I wanted to take ME5e. As it often does, life just sort of got in the way. I was slowly (ever so slowly),
working on the site update; but, my cadence of development was only about once a month.

When I found out that the Legendary Edition was real (and not just a rumor), I finally got that fire I needed to buckle down
and focus. Before anyone freaks out, don't worry...the changes to the homebrew content are minor: little improvements here and there.
You'll find everything listed below.

That said, I wanted to take a few quick paragraphs and qualify my ["roadmap"](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BlA7AA3otzgI-FGJTxJ9_3nwKubnresvCvSaz9N6dUw/edit?usp=sharing).

## Pivoting
During my time off, I've been mulling over this homebrew and thinking about where I want to take it. I would call the
linked roadmap an overreaction to the current state of the system. I felt it had drifted too far from 5e and my
snap judgement was to bring it as close in line with 5e as possible.

At some point during the back-end refactor, I found myself re-reading the Open Game License (OGL) and System Reference
Document (SRD) for D&D 5th Edition. The epiphany I had was that the OGL and SRD are meant for the creation of _new_ content,
not rehashing or "re-skinning" already existing content. After realizing this, I took a few days to reread all
of the content I (and others) have created over the past 4 years. I realized that most of the things I didn't like
(barrier, combat cantrips, mix & match armor), were exactly the things the OGL and SRD were made for. They augment an existing
system with new rules and mechanics.

So...my plans for the future are to focus on creation instead of re-skinning. For example, if you saw or used any of the playtest
content for a "class 2.0" update, adepts and soldiers were just re-skins of sorcerers and fighters. That's
the type of design I want to avoid. If I refactor the classes, they'll be brand new classes. The same goes for a lot
of content like monsters, backgrounds, species, etc. I also want to explore new avenues of gameplay and progression, like
expanding paragon and renegade or introducing new powers that can branch and progress in various ways. Nothing is set in stone,
these are all just ideas I've been jotting down.

That said, mechanics are mechanics. Sometimes aspects of a D&D class, or spell, or feature just work. There are some staples
in 5e that I don't want to do away with simply because I'm leaning towards "the new". Some spells are perfect for ME5e, so
long as they get a sci-fi spin. Extra attack is common among many classes as are the mechanics of spell slots. It's a
fine needle to thread and I can't say it's going to be perfect. What I can say is that I'll listen to your feedback and
do my best to find a balance.

And, hey...if you don't like it...I've got a surprise...

## Versions

If you look in the lower left (may need to open the nav menu if you're on a smaller screen size), you'll see the current version.
Go ahead, click on it...what's that! Links to the older versions of the site! #mind-blown...or whatever

I've resurrected a few key versions of ME5e. __NOTE!!!__ These are resurrections, flaws and all, including any bugs in the site at that version.
They're not going to have all the new and pretty site improvements I plan on introducing.

- v0.8.4 contains the classes and species "pre-v1.0.0"
- v0.9.1 contains the post-v1 classes (sans a few changes), but pre-v1 species
- v1.2.0 contains everything as it has been for the past year or so

Moving forward, whenever I release, I'll "freeze" a version of the site and make it available. Hopefully, this will
let people utilize the version they like/d most. If, one day...far far far into the future, I get everything I want done,
maybe I'll make some sort of version compiler that lets you pick and choose atomic parts of the rules in the version you want. While
that would be super awesome and I'd love the challenge, I've got plenty of other skald to fry.

## Site

### Backend updates

- __Dark mode.__ It's here...it's live...it's darker than Jack's backstory
  - Note: you can toggle it if you like the light
- __Metric toggler.__ Do you hate the metric system...well...(no comment)...you can now used imperial measurements instead
  - Note: It's very possible I missed something somewhere. If you notice some measurement that isn't being toggled, [please let us know](https://forms.gle/JtGQqS9KxVFQGtAq7)

### Organization

- __Mods__. Armor and Weapon mods were combined into a single list.
- __Gear Section__. The new gear section contains: Grenades, Heavy Weapons, Tools and Kits (the physical items), Omni-tool programs, and other consumables (medi-gel, thermal clips, heavy weapon charges)
- __Tool Proficiencies__ can now be found in the appendix.
- The __Generators__ section contains the loot and npc generator, more generators will be coming as I more forward with other updates.
- The __Guides__ section contains some of those random pages about creating encounters, custom armor, etc. I may expand this section in the future with more GM-friendly materials.
- The __Feedback & About__ pages have been combined

## Name changes

- "Race" has been renamed to "Species" throughout (if I missed a reference, [please let us know](https://forms.gle/JtGQqS9KxVFQGtAq7))
- "Spell" has been renamed to "Power" throughout (if I missed a reference, [please let us know](https://forms.gle/JtGQqS9KxVFQGtAq7))
  - This includes phrases like "spellcasting" becoming "powercasting"
- "Armor sets" are just called "Armor"
- The "Grunt generator" has been renamed to the "NPC generator"

## Rules
- __Species/Class restrictions__ have been removed. GM's can still limit based on their discretion.
- __Species/Setting__ restrictions (i.e. Andromeda  vs Milky Way) have been removed. GM's can still limit based on their discretion.
- __Racial Starting Credits__ have been removed. Starting credits are now determined by class. See: [Rules > Equipment > Starting Equipment](/manual/equipment#starting-equipment)
- __Two-weapon fighting.__ Two-weapon fighting now applies to all light weapons (ranged and melee). See: [Rules > Combat > Making an Attack > Dual Wielding](/manual/combat#making-an-attack)
  - This also had a chain of effect which required a few other changes.

## Classes

### Fighting Styles
__Ambidextrous__ was added which works for any combination of melee and ranged two-weapon fighting. I'm not 100% sure about
this approach because I don't think it makes sense for a character who specializes is dual-wielding
swords to be able to pick up a couple of pistols and fire akimbo without issue. But it streamlines the rules significantly.
Once the weapon refactor happens, this might change.

__Gunslinger__ was removed as the addition of Two-weapon fighting effectively made it obsolete. The only difference is
the limitation of "light" ranged weapons in two-weapon fighting, whereas gunslinger let you use non-light weapons. So GMs should
feel free to adjust to their wishes.

## Feats
- __Dual Wielder__ remains as is.
- __Melee Gunner__ a replacement for Melee Specialist (parts of which became obsolete with the two-weapon fighting change). It focuses on utilizing your gun as a melee weapon or firing in close range then making a melee attack.

## Conditions
- __Primers & Detonators__. The explosions resulting from a primer being detonated now scale with your level, similarly to cantrips.

## Gear

### Grenades
I did some additional clean-up on greande "marks", scaling them similarly to a 5e spell scroll.

## What didn't happen

- __Simplified Shield Regen Rules__. Due to the interconnectedness of armor and shields, this will be postponed to the armor rework.
- __Melee Attacks and Shields__. I was going to turn the melee-shield-bypass rule into a variant, but since I did not rework shields, this was postponed.
- __Remove Targeting__. This was more a lack of time and the fact that I didn't want to update any classes (at least one has an interconnected feature with targeting). This will come with a weapon rework.
- __Updated Character Builder__. You'll probably notice the character sheet links go to the v120 version. @MarcoPolo and I had a discussion and we want to rewrite it from the ground up, so that's going to happen in the next release.
- __Updated PDF__

## What's happening next

Part of this backend refactor was separating the "data" (i.e., text and rules) from the "display" (the website code). This
has paved the way for a lot of potential site improvements and utilities as well as making it easier for other developers
to utilize the content for their own cool apps. So, before I start on content updates, I'm going to work on the auxiliary
tools for a while.

__Things that are definitely going to happen__:
- Update the character builder
- Create a workflow for adding translations

__Things that _might_ happen__:
- Make a PDF Compiler (i.e., pick and choose the parts of this homebrew you want and export into Homebrewery)
- Assess the current status of the Roll20 character sheet and update if needed (this has never been something I've maintained, but I'm considering adopting it)
- Investigate a Beyond20-like app for exporting characters into other systems like VTT Foundry & Roll20 (contingent upon adopting the Roll20 character sheet)

