---
layout: post
title: "v1.4.4"
description: "New Content & the Future of ME5e"
date: 2022-11-07
image: https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/3/34/Space_station.jpg
---

## Highlights

- FOUR new classes (including 13 subclasses between them)
- THIRTY-FIVE new subclasses!!! (not including the 13 from classes)
- Companion "Lite" interface
- A handful of other new powers, weapons, etc

## Note from the Creator

I wanted to let everyone know that I have effectively stepped away from content creation/management of ME5e.
In all honestly, I probably should have made this change earlier. ME5e has gone through some long droughts of
staleness where no content has been updated and this patch represents the firehose of community content that has been
building over the years.

Though I'll no longer be working on content updates, I will continue to maintain and host the website. But there is a
huge difference between "maintain" and "develop". As I enter maintenance mode, the only changes that
will happen in the future will be bug fixes. Should the Discord moderators choose to update content, I will likely be
the one to implement those edits as well.

Unfortunately, this means I won't be adding any additional homebrew features and won't get to campaign management.
Instead, my priorities will shift towards a new shared codebase for ME5e and SW5e (Star Wars 5e). Please understand,
when I say "shared codebase" I am speaking only about the website and website features (like the character builder & npc generator).
__There is no intent whatsoever to mash-up the rules between ME5e and SW5e__. They are each their own entities. But there are
features on SW5e (like exporting characters to Roll20 and Foundry) that we think would benefit ME5e, and features of ME5e
(like community homebrew and the NPC generator) that we think would benefit SW5e.

The good news is that once we have the core functionality written and migrated ME5e and SW5e over to this new system,
we will be adding the rest of the homebrew and campaign management. So, the features will get here eventually, but significantly delayed.

## Bug Fixes



