---
layout: post
title: "2022 Roadmap"
description: "A look at what's to come this year."
date: 2022-04-03
image: https://data.n7.world/images/misc/v140-roadmap.jpg
---

## April Fools

Thanks for humoring us yesterday. We know April Fools jokes can be a bit tiring but we hope you got a minor chuckle.
If anyone missed the April Fools content, [you can find it here](/changelog/april-fools-2022).

## 2022 Roadmap

__NOTE!__ The timelines listed below are "best case scenarios." There is a lot of web development involved in the upcoming
content and we only have two web developers who both have full-time jobs. In addition, one of the developers is the creator (me/I)
and I have to juggle bugs and content ideas/editing. I'm very committed to delivering these features as soon as possible,
but there are only so many hours in the day.

### Targeted Rules clean-up
_Release: Ongoing_

Starting today, we’ll begin polling the community for potential “problem areas”. The content moderators will review
submissions and work on targeted updates, batching the updates into smaller, more manageable releases. This work will
be ongoing and updates will all fall into the v1.4.X range of releases. If a change is disruptive enough to warrant a
version bump, we will do so. If that happens, we will pre-release the changes as playtest content so we can get feedback.

However, the goal of these targeted updates is _not_ to make sweeping changes. Instead, we want to focus on smaller tweaks
and fixing long-standing issues.

_So what is a “problem area”?_

Problem areas confusing, broken, outdated, or any other issue about the system that we’ve heard from multiple players
and GMs. Some notorious examples are:

- Concussive shot is overpowered and needs some tweaking
- Catapult: Salvo advancement makes absolutely no sense
- Some armor set bonuses are too powerful to be considered uncommon items (for example, Maverick armor)

We will consider any suggestion provided by the community, but issues will be prioritized by:

- __Frequency of reports__
  - The more people report a problem the higher the priority
- __Specificity of the feedback__
  - More specific feedback (i.e., clearly outlined problems with supporting reasons) will have a higher priority than generalized statements
- __Scope__
  - Smaller, more targeted changes will take priority over changes that would change numerous rules and mechanics
- __Development Requirements__
  - Changes that require significant development to the website and/or character sheet won’t necessarily have a higher or lower priority but may take longer to release

If you would like to submit your thoughts, ideas, and/or areas where you’ve experienced problems [you can do so via this form](https://forms.gle/XxyMKYarrSGf4DKaA) (which is also now available on the about page).

Please keep your suggestions limited to the rules/content of the system and not the website or online character builder/sheet.
Additionally, we are already working on a vehicle rules redesign so we ask that you hold your suggestions for that
content until it is released.

### New Vehicle Rules
_Release: TBD_

New vehicle rules are being designed and playtested by the discord moderator team. They will be shared out to the
community once we feel they are ready for public playtesting. Then they will be added to the website. We currently do
not have a proposed timeline for this work as it will happen concurrently with everything else on this list.

### Character Sheet improvements
_Release: By the end of Q2_

The website developers will be focusing on making the character sheet fully functional for all system needs. It will include (but is not limited to):
- Class features
- Power Damage & Higher Level casting
- Weapon Mods
- Armor Set Bonuses
- Armor Mods
- A death saving throw interface
- Inspiration
- Better character level management

### Community Homebrew
_Release: Starting in Q3 and hopefully finished by the end of the year_

This feature will focus on allowing community homebrew submissions to the site and letting other players use that
homebrew in their own campaigns. Because each “model” (e.g., species, classes, weapons, etc) requires its own unique
development, the following list will be rolled out over the course of Q3 and likely into Q4. The list is presented
in alphabetical order (not in release order). The current plan is to start with something "simpler" like weapons
then dive right into classes and subclasses (but no promises).

- Armor
- Backgrounds
- Bestiary
- Classes and Subclasses
- Feats
- Gear (grenades, omni-tool programs, heavy weapons, and other miscellany)
- Mods (weapons & armor)
- Species, Variant species, and  Subspecies
- Powers
- Vehicles
- Weapons

### Rules PDF
_Release: Q3_

This feature will allow players to cherry pick rules from the system and export into a markdown file, which can then
be copy and pasted into Homebrewery (which can then be downloaded as a PDF). Thus, instead of maintaining an “official”
PDF, we want users to be able to create their own unique PDFs that fit their needs. Though we want to get to this
feature earlier, we also want players to be able to include homebrew in their custom PDFs. Therefore, we are holding
off on this feature until some of the homebrew models are completed.

### Campaign Management
_Release: Q4_

Finally, we will work on modern campaign management features similar to those found in other online TTRPG systems like
Roll20 and DnDBeyond. Campaign management primarily entails:

- Creating a campaign and allowing other players to associate their character with the campaign
- A special “GM” roll for a user, which grants them edit rights to associated character sheets
- An encounter builder/runner for the GM roll
- A campaign roll log

## Updated Road to Version 2
Once all of the above is complete, the creator (me/I), will take a step back from Version 1 and hand over rules
maintenance/governance to the capable discord moderators. I will still be around to make website updates and provide
input to rule changes, but I won’t actively be designing anything for it.

Instead, my focus will shift to designing a Version 2. For years, I’ve had a grand vision for this system, but many of
my designs are not cohesive with Version 1 and, in some cases, will likely upset current players. Therefore, at
some point I will release a Version 2, but it will live alongside Version 1. Much like you can set whether or not you
want to use metric or imperial measurements, the website will allow you to choose your preferred version.

As I work towards this goal, I will release playtesting materials for community feedback and the current content team
can be as involved as they want in the design process (though they may prefer to work on Version 1 instead).

Not everything will change so the two versions will be mostly compatible (which will, hopefully, reduce questions and
confusion in community discussions). The major changes for Version 2 will be:

### Classes & Subclasses Overhaul
Instead of cherry picking from existing D&D classes, I am working on 6 completely unique classes and, at minimum, 5
unique subclasses for each.

### New Powercasting System
My plan a year ago was to re-skin the D&D spell library into ME lore and expand the power slots to 9 levels. Instead,
I’ve been designing an entirely new powercasting system that, I think, better represents the ME games.

### Weapons & Armor Overhaul
We were planning on doing a weapons and armor overhaul for Version 1, but felt that it ultimately would nerf too many
current players (i.e. there was too much change involved). Therefore, some ideas from this work may make it into
Version 1, but the majority of this work will be reserved for Version 2.





