---
layout: post
title: "v1.4.3"
description: "HOMEBREW!!!"
date: 2022-11-07
image: https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/5/50/Kasumi2.jpg
---

## Community Homebrew!!!
The most significant feature of this release is the introduction of Homebrew. Now, players and GMs can create their own weapons
and powers, share their creations and use creations on their characters.

Currently, the homebrew system only allows the creation of weapons and powers, but over the coming months we will be adding
new homebrew "models" for community creation, including species, classes & subclasses, armor, mods, gear, backgrounds,
and stat blocks (i.e. bestiary entries).

Some important notes about this new feature:
- Any homebrew must adhere to our [Acceptable Use](/legal/acceptable-use) policies. Which basically means: don't submit copyrighted content and/or create content
that is unethical.
- Please be respectful of others' work. While the ME5e developers don't care if you copy, tweak, or overhaul official content, please refrain from copying content created by others.
- Because homebrew has to be stored on our servers, __you must have an account to interact with homebrew in any way!!__
- Note that there are 3 "Publication Statuses" for homebrew:
  - Private: means it is only available to you unless you share the link with others (at which point they can see and add it)
  - Development: means the creation will show up in the community homebrew list. People can openly see and use it, but you can still make edits to it.
  - Published: Is similar to development with two key changes: You will not be able to edit the homebrew further and the community will be able to upvote/like your creation.
- Since this is new territory for us, there are likely going to be a few bugs to work out. So please be patient if you run into errors and submit a bug report.

## Classes

### Sentinel
- The Guardian's subclass feature Omni-Shield was changed from an Action to an Attack.

## Weapons
Like we did a little over a year ago with power ranges, we've normalized weapon ranges as well. In almost all cases, weapon
ranges either stayed the same or were increased. The one significant "nerf" I can recall was for the Geth Plasma SMG, which went
from 18m to 12m.

## Site Features

### Character Sheet Improvements
- XP/Milestone level tracking is now available for your characters.
- A Death Saving Throw interface will show up if your character hits 0 hp
- Inspiration tracking has been added
- Armor limitations are now applied to characters. This feature can be toggled on/off in the character preferences. The armor limitations include:
  - Showing a disadvantage indicator for Stealth checks when wearing 3 pieces of medium armor or at least 1 piece of heavy armor
  - Showing a disadvantage indicator for Strength and Dexterity checks and saving throws when you're wearing 2 or more pieces of armor for which you lack proficiency
  - Preventing the casting of powers when you're wearing 4 pieces of armor for which you lack proficiency
  - Reducing your speed by 4 meters (10 ft) when wearing armor for which you lack the requisite STR score (unless some trait/feature override this)
- Damage dice now show up as a single roll where applicable. For example, with the Incendiary Ammo mod, the 1d4 extra fire damage was
listed _below_ the base damage. Now the damage is a single roll. This change also improved some powers like Lance's anti-shield advancement.
- We had a soft cap of 20 characters per account. You could create more, but they wouldn't be available on other devices. We have increased this cap to 50 characters.

## Bug Fixes
- Single-Fire System mod was incorrectly adding +2 to damage rolls. This has been fixed
- Fixed the consumables drop-down (it wasn't opening when a certain set of preferences were chosen)
- Overriding saving throw proficiencies in the settings now properly add the proficiencies
- Omni-* weapons correctly consume 0 weapon slots



