---
layout: post
title: "v1.4.2"
description: "Character Sheet Updates: Weapons & Armor"
date: 2022-05-15
image: 'https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/1/1e/Codex_ME_-_Upgrades.png/revision/latest?cb=20210715160429'
---

## Highlights

- Major character sheet improvements focused on weapon, armor, mods, and gear
- Minor tweaks to rules. Some were based on feedback, others were made to simplify some gear

## Rules

### Consumable Slots
Prior to this update, the rules indicated that all armor had consumable slots for thermal clips (10), grenades (2), and medi-gel (4).
However, there was no indication as to which pieces provided these totals. We have now codified the slots-per-piece as:

- Chest: 6 thermal clips, 2 medi-gel
- Legs: 2 thermal clips, 2 grenades
- Arms: 2 thermal clips, 2 medi-gel

Body armor (being a combination of the three) continues to provide 10 thermal clip, 2 grenade, and 4 medi-gel slots.

### Other Changes

- Clarified the time it takes to don/doff armor when wearing multiple different types (takes an average)

## Classes

### Adept

- Disruptor's Potent Biotics feature now applies to all biotic powers

### Sentinel

- Guardian's Tech Aura, clarified that Brute Force and Negation Field only apply to friendly creatures
- Guardian's Omni-Shield
  - clarified you are proficient with the melee attack
  - Added powercasting mod to attack and damage rolls
  - Removed short rest limitation
- Guardian's Fire Shield
  - removed the base omni-shield attack
  - Added powercasting mod to attack and damage rolls
  - deals 4d10 fire damage
- Guardian's Cryo Shield
  - removed the base omni-shield attack
  - Added powercasting mod to attack and damage rolls
  - DC based on powercasting DC
  - deals 2d8 cold damage

# Soldiers

- Soldiers were given a +2 bump to their combat powers known. Starting with 3 at first level, scaling up to 8.

## Weapons

- Burst Fire, changed from a flat DC to a DC = 8 + DEX Mod + (prof bonus if your are proficient with the weapon)

## Weapon Mods

- Gyroscope, always gains +2 for the thrown attack instead of +1 only if it previously had the thrown property.
- Extended Grip, the weapon always gains the two-handed, reach, and versatile properties instead of previously gaining a combination based on its previous properties

## Armor Sets

- Maverick Armor Rarity increased to Spectre, costs increased accordingly. Namely, the costs were so low because the set bonus "cost" was never applied.
- Umbra Visor rarity increased to Spectre.

## Omni-tool Programs

- All_Terrain.exe, changed from +5 bonus to advantage
- Deflector_Array.exe, removed the riot shield restriction
- Double_Time.exe, changed to a flat +12 meter (30ft) increase instead of double
- Experimental_Barrier.exe, added the DC to the description (previously had none)
- Expert_Hand.exe, changed from +5 bonus to advantage
- Quantum_Displacer.exe, removed the omni-gel cost
- Thermic_Overvent.exe, removed the omni-gel cost

## Grenades

- Proximity Mine, the disarming check didn't make since because a creature couldn't get close enough to disarm it. Changed to a perception check.
- Sticky grenade, range changed to 12 meters (30 ft), had incorrectly never been updated

## Site Features

The bulk of the work for this update was integrating weapons, armor, mods, and gear into the character sheet. Previous to this
update, you had to make use of overrides for armor or mod mechanics and gear were just items with descriptions. Now, these
elements are fully interactive.

Additionally, there has long been confusion about armor mods. The intent of armor mods is that they can only be applied to
_custom_ armor, not pre-made armor sets. In order to make this clearer we've removed the "Add Custom Armor" part of the equipment manager
and each custom armor type is available in the equipment manager. For example, if you had a custom heavy chest piece with 2 mod slots
you can add it via the new manager by searching for "Heavy Chest Armor II" then add mods to it.

Grenades have "marks", medi-gel has "types", personal shield generators and some programs also have "levels". In these
instances, every level of item has a unique entry for the character shield. I.e., you can now add a Mark V grenade and
it will show the correct stats for that item.

### What I should do

- We recommend reviewing any overrides or settings you've made. You will need to remove these overrides to properly see
stats from gear.
- If you have custom armor with mods applied, you should add the corresponding custom armor item and re-add your mods
- If you had any grenades, medi-gel, a personal shield generator, or any of the programs with "levels", remove them and re-add
the level-specific item.

### New interfaces

#### Equipment manager

- Set which consumables you have equipped (i.e., which grenades, medi-gel, and how many thermal clips)
- Add equipment
- Convert equipment to omni-gel

#### Credit Interface

- Buy and Sell equipment
- Apply discounts to the total

#### Character Settings

- Shows your name, all of your classes and levels
- Links to short & long rest, overrides, exports, and the new Preferences

#### Preferences

- Allows you to change your rule preferences for:
  - Tracking weapon slots
  - Grenade capacity
  - Medi-gel slots
  - Thermal clip tracking
  - Omni-tool program limits

#### Short and Long Rests
Short and long rest interfaces have been updated and are better at tracking power slot/point regeneration and hit die tracking.

### Other improvements
- Mods installed on weapons and armor properly adjust character (or weapon specific) stats
- Equipped armor properly adjusts character stats
- Equipped grenades, heavy weapons, and medi-gel show up as usable actions
- Equipped weapons, grenades, medi-gel, and thermal clips take up slots (can be turned off via preferences)
- If you have a shoulder mounts mod equipped, you add your weapons to it
- When a feature or mod lets you reroll damage die, it is automatically rerolled and indicated in the roll log

## Bug Fixes

- Certain powers and advancements provided an additional action to be taken while the power was active (example, with
pull, you can use a bonus action to move a pulled creature). This was causing confusion as the alternate casting time
was being interpreted as the power's casting time. In these instance, the alternate casting time has been removed. The only
alternate casting times that remain are for powers that can be _cast_ with the alternate time. For example, you can cast
blade armor as a bonus action or a reaction.
- Random height/weight page is now fixed
- Cantrip advancements are properly applied if your character is lower than 5th level

