---
layout: post
title: "v1.4.1"
description: "Adept update and character sheet improvements"
date: 2022-05-15
image: 'https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/masseffect/images/0/01/Noveria_Benezia_Using_Her_Biotics.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/1000?cb=20100307070147'
---

# v1.4.1

## Highlights

- Numerous character sheet improvements, including class feature integrations and power damage
- Adepts significantly buffed

## Rules

- Multiclassing can no longer _reduce_ your maximum number of barrier ticks.

## Classes

### Adept

_One of the most consistent pieces of feedback we have received over the past year (or more) is that adepts are _the_ most
underpowered class in this homebrew. The changes below represent a significant buff to the class; and, therefore, the
dev team felt that it wasn't necessary to keep the v1.4.0 version._

_In summary, the commando subclass was incorporated into the base subclass. The commando's features felt the most "adept-y"
and brought the boost in power that the devs were looking for. The commando subclass was conceptually rewritten
to reflect the games' commandos, bringing both biotics and weaponry into combat._

_While there were discussions about reviewing the other 2 subclasses, the dev team decided we would rather get this update
out and work on subclasses (as a whole) at a later date._

#### Base Class
- 3rd level, Biotic Aptitude lets adepts add their powercasting mod to all biotic damage. This effectively replaces Dark and
Pure biotics from the Disruptor and Commando subclasses, respectively.
- 7th level, Expert Biotics (gain power slots of lower level when you cast a power) was moved from commando subclass to the base class.
- 11th level, Biotic Split (split a power to hit two targets) was moved from commando subclass to the base class.
- Biotic Mastery moved from 17th level to 15th level.
- Empowered Biotics (reroll 1s on damage rolls) was removed completely (previously at 17th level)
- Signature Biotics moved from 20th level to 18th level
- New capstone, Unmatched Biotics, increases Wisdom by 4 and Wisdom maximum to 24.

#### Commando Subclass
- Effectively a new subclass focusing on mixing weapon combat and biotics.

#### Disruptor
- Dark Biotics updated to be a penalty to affected creatures' saving throws (previous feature's bonus damage is effectively
included the new 3rd-level Biotic Aptitude)

### Engineer

#### Drone Jockey

- Combined drone's bond and drone companion features into a single feature. Simply a housekeeping change, no actual changes to those features.

### Sentinel

- Changed Quick Cast to Extra Attack and one of the attacks can now be used to cast a cantrip. This change was made to help with the overabundance of bonus actions for sentinels.

### Vanguard

#### Battle Master
- Lift Attack (Biotic Maneuver). Clarified that the lifted condition lasts until the end of your next turn.
- Biotic Focus (6th level feature). Changed from "double your walking speed" to a 12 meter increase in walking speed. This was mainly done for housekeeping purposes but also to prevent confusion on if the "double" applied to other bonuses.

#### Shock Trooper
- Stunning Strike (6th level feature). Clarified when you "deal damage" with charge (instead of "hit"), as charge is not an attack roll.

## Powers

- Removed the +powercasting modifier to damage on the 4 powers where it existed as it overlapped with the new Adept feature, Biotic Aptitude. This applies to the following powers:
  - Biotic Orbs
  - Dark Sphere
  - Lance
  - Warp
- Barrier Detonation: fixed a typo. Now indicates that the range is a 2m-*radius* sphere
- Catapult: The salvo advancement has finally been replaced and need never be discussed again.
- Concussive shot was nerfed as we have had numerous reports of it being way too overpowered.
- Cryo Beam level fixed (was listed at 2nd level should have been 3rd)
- Added correct higher level cast times for Pull (30 minutes at 4th level, 1 hours at 5th level)


## Bestiary
- Corrected the Blue Suns Pyro CR to 1 (instead of 1/4)

## Site Features

### Character Sheet Improvements
- Powers are now "castable" (main improvement is showing the upcast changes)
- Power damage shown on the sheet
- Improve power management interface
- Numerous "more information" panels were moved to a right-hand pane (instead of a pop-up dialog)
- Activating barrier is now moved into the Actions section. The button below the barrier tick tracker now rolls the barrier tick die
- Tech Armor has its own health pool
- Some features now are "toggle-able", which applies the correct benefits (such as AC, bonuses to attack, etc) when the feature is toggled on.

### Bug Fixes
- Barrier uses will now reset on a short rest
- Multiclassing will no longer make your power slots disappear
- STG Training (Feat) now properly applies its bonus to sleight of hand

